[IMP] purchase: update blanket orders doc (#8201)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/purchase/manage_deals/blanket_orders.rst

==============
Blanket orders
==============

.. _purchase/manage_deals/blanket-orders:

.. |SO| replace:: :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)`
.. |PO| replace:: :abbr:`PO (Purchase Order)`
.. |UoM| replace:: :abbr:`UoM (Unit of Measure)`
.. |RfQ| replace:: :abbr:`RfQ (Request for Quotation)`
.. |RfQs| replace:: :abbr:`RfQs (Requests for Quotation)`

Blanket orders are long-term purchase agreements between a company and a vendor to deliver products
on a recurring basis with predetermined pricing.

> Using blanket orders is helpful when products are always purchased from the same vendor, but in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Blanket orders are helpful when products are consistently purchased from the same vendor, but in
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

different quantities, and at different times.

By simplifying the ordering process, blanket orders not only save time, they also save money, since
they can be advantageous when negotiating bulk pricing with vendors.

Create a new blanket order
==========================

To create blanket orders, enable the *Purchase Agreements* feature from the *Purchase* app settings.
Navigate to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Configuration --> Settings`, and under the

> :guilabel:`Orders` section, click the checkbox next to :guilabel:`Purchase Agreements`.

Reviewer: totally optional
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Orders` section, click the checkbox for :guilabel:`Purchase Agreements`.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

.. note::
   In addition to creating blanket orders, the *Purchase Agreements* setting also allows users to
   create alternative requests for quotation (RfQs).

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-enabled-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Purchase Agreements enabled in the Purchase app settings.

To create a blanket order, go to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Orders --> Blanket Orders`, and

> click :guilabel:`New`. This opens a new, blank blanket order form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
click :guilabel:`New`. This opens a blank blanket order form.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

> From this new blanket order form, different fields and settings can be configured. Doing so sets

Reviewer: Totally optional rewording!
```suggestion
Configure the following fields in the new blanket order form to establish predetermined rules for the recurring long-term agreement:
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

- :guilabel:`Company`: is the company assigned to this specific blanket order. By default, this is
  the company that the user creating the blanket order is listed under. If the database is not a
  multi-company database, this field **cannot** be changed, and will default to the only company
  listed in the database.

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-new-agreement.png
   :align: center
   :alt: New blanket order purchase agreement with added products.

Once all relevant fields have been filled out, click :guilabel:`Add a line` to add products under
the :guilabel:`Product` column. Then, in the :guilabel:`Quantity` column, change the quantity of
each product, and set a price in the :guilabel:`Unit Price` column.

.. important::
   When adding products to a new blanket order, the pre-existing prices of products will not be
   automatically added to the product lines. Instead, the prices **must** be manually assigned, by
   changing the value in the :guilabel:`Unit Price` column to an agreed-upon price with the listed
   vendor. Otherwise, the price will remain **0**.

To view and change the default purchase agreement settings for blanket orders directly from the

> blanket order form, click the :guilabel:`➡️ (internal link arrow)` next to the :guilabel:`Agreement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blanket order form, click the :guilabel:`➡️ (right arrow)` icon that becomes visible when hovering over the :guilabel:`Agreement
```
according to Jess' style guide (:
![image](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/23611711/62669b96-3ac5-4448-9060-d27ca89eb9cf)

[Link](https://www.odoo.com/web#id=8793&cids=3&menu_id=6446&action=5066&model=knowledge.article&view_type=form)

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

> Type` field where :guilabel:`Blanket Order` is listed. This navigates to the blanket order settings.

Reviewer: since it was a little tricky to find this, what do you think about including an image of where this internal link arrow is? Totally optional!

- :guilabel:`Use lines of agreement`: when creating a new quotation, the product lines pre-populate
  with the same products listed on the blanket order, if said blanket order is chosen for the new
  quotation.
- :guilabel:`Do not create RfQ lines automatically`: when creating a new quotation, **and**
  selecting an existing blanket order, the settings will carry over to the new quotation, but the
  product lines will **not** populate.

And, there are two options that can be activated for :guilabel:`Quantities`:

- :guilabel:`Use quantities of agreement`: when creating a new quotation, the product quantities
  listed on the blanket order pre-populate on the product lines, if said blanket order is chosen for
  the new quotation.
- :guilabel:`Set quantities manually`: when creating a new quotation, **and** selecting an existing
  blanket order, the product lines pre-populate, but all quantities will be set to **0**. The
  quantities **must** be manually set by the user.

Once any desired changes have been made, click :guilabel:`New` (via the breadcrumbs, at the top of
the page) to navigate back to the blanket order form. Then, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to save this

> new purchase agreement. Once confirmed, the blanket order changes from *Draft* to *Ongoing*, meaning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new purchase agreement.

Once confirmed, the blanket order's stage (in the upper-right corner) changes from *Draft* to *Ongoing*, meaning
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

this agreement can be selected and used when creating new |RfQs|.

.. tip::
   After creating and confirming a blanket order, products, quantities, and prices can still be
   edited, added, and removed from the purchase agreement.

> Create a new |RfQ| from the blanket order

Reviewer: oh wow I didn't know we could put abbreviations into the headings like this! Cool find, Brandon

=========================================

After confirming a blanket order, new quotations can be created directly from the blanket order

> form. |RfQs| created this way pre-populate with the pre-configured information, using the rules on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
form. |RfQs| using this form are pre-populated with information based on the rules set in
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

the form. Additionally, new quotations are automatically linked to this blanket order form via the
:guilabel:`RFQs/Orders` smart button at the top right of the form.

> To create a new quotation from the blanket order form, click :guilabel:`New Quotation`. This opens a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new quotation from the blanket order form, click the :guilabel:`New Quotation` button. This opens a
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

click :guilabel:`Confirm Order` to confirm the |PO|.

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-new-quotation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: New quotation with copied products and rules from blanket order.

Once the |PO| has been confirmed, click back to the blanket order form (via the breadcrumbs, at the
top of the page). From the blanket order form, there is now one |RfQ| listed in the
:guilabel:`RFQs/Orders` smart button at the top right of the form. Click the :guilabel:`RFQs/Orders`
smart button to see the |PO| that was just created.

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-rfq-smart-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: RFQs and Orders smart button from blanket order form.

Replenishment
=============

Once a blanket order is confirmed, a new vendor line is added under the :guilabel:`Purchase` tab of
the products included in the order.

This makes blanket orders useful with :doc:`automated replenishment
<../../purchase/products/reordering>`, because information about the :guilabel:`Vendor`,
:guilabel:`Price`, and the :guilabel:`Agreement` are referenced on the vendor line. This information

> is used to determine where, when, and for what price this product should be replenished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dictates when, where, and at what price the product should be replenished.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

==============
Blanket orders
==============

.. _purchase/manage_deals/blanket-orders:

.. |SO| replace:: :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)`
.. |PO| replace:: :abbr:`PO (Purchase Order)`
.. |UoM| replace:: :abbr:`UoM (Unit of Measure)`
.. |RfQ| replace:: :abbr:`RfQ (Request for Quotation)`
.. |RfQs| replace:: :abbr:`RfQs (Requests for Quotation)`

Blanket orders are long-term purchase agreements between a company and a vendor to deliver products
on a recurring basis with predetermined pricing.

Blanket orders are helpful when products are consistently purchased from the same vendor, but in
different quantities, and at different times.

By simplifying the ordering process, blanket orders not only save time, they also save money, since
they can be advantageous when negotiating bulk pricing with vendors.

Create a new blanket order
==========================

To create blanket orders, enable the *Purchase Agreements* feature from the *Purchase* app settings.
Navigate to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Configuration --> Settings`, and under the

> :guilabel:`Orders` section, click the checkbox for :guilabel:`Purchase Agreements`.

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

.. note::
   In addition to creating blanket orders, the *Purchase Agreements* setting also allows users to
   create alternative requests for quotation (RfQs).

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-enabled-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Purchase Agreements enabled in the Purchase app settings.

To create a blanket order, go to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Orders --> Blanket Orders`,

> and click :guilabel:`New`. This opens a blank blanket order form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and click :guilabel:`New`. This opens a new blanket order form.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

Configure the following fields in the new blanket order form to establish predetermined rules for
the recurring long-term agreement:

> - :guilabel:`Purchase Representative`: is the user assigned to this specific blanket order. By

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest removing the "...is" lead-in from all these descriptions, since a colon is being used.

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

  default, this is the user who created the agreement; the user can be changed directly from the
  drop-down menu next to this field.
- :guilabel:`Agreement Type`: is the type of purchase agreement this blanket order is classified as.
  In Odoo, blanket orders are the only official purchase agreement.
- :guilabel:`Vendor`: is the supplier to whom this agreement is tied, either once or on a recurring
  basis. The vendor can be selected directly from the drop-down menu next to this field.

> - :guilabel:`Currency`: is the agreed-upon currency that will be used for this exchange. If multiple

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Currency`: is the agreed-upon currency to be used for this exchange. If multiple
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

  menu next to this field.
- :guilabel:`Agreement Deadline`: is the date that this purchase agreement will be set to expire on.
  If this blanket order should not expire, leave this field blank.
- :guilabel:`Ordering Date`: is the date that this blanket order should be placed on if a new
  quotation is created directly from the blanket order form. If a new quotation is created, this
  value automatically populates the *Order Deadline* field on the |RfQ|.
- :guilabel:`Delivery Date`: is the expected delivery date that the products included in an |RfQ|
  are expected, if created directly from a blanket order form. If a new quotation is created, this
  value automatically populates the *Expected Arrival* field on the |RfQ|.
- :guilabel:`Source Document`: is the source purchase order (PO) that this blanket order is tied to.
  If this blanket order should not be tied to any existing |PO|, leave this field blank.
- :guilabel:`Company`: is the company assigned to this specific blanket order. By default, this is
  the company that the user creating the blanket order is listed under. If the database is not a

>   multi-company database, this field **cannot** be changed, and will default to the only company

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  multi-company database, this field **cannot** be changed, and defaults to the only company
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

  listed in the database.

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-new-agreement.png
   :align: center
   :alt: New blanket order purchase agreement with added products.

Once all relevant fields have been filled out, click :guilabel:`Add a line` to add products under
the :guilabel:`Product` column. Then, in the :guilabel:`Quantity` column, change the quantity of
each product, and set a price in the :guilabel:`Unit Price` column.

.. important::

>    When adding products to a new blanket order, the pre-existing prices of products will not be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   When adding products to a new blanket order, the pre-existing prices of products are not 
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

   automatically added to the product lines. Instead, the prices **must** be manually assigned, by
   changing the value in the :guilabel:`Unit Price` column to an agreed-upon price with the listed

>    vendor. Otherwise, the price will remain **0**.

Reviewer 2: should this be **0** or `0`?

Author: The latter - Suggestion implemented ✅

To view and change the default purchase agreement settings for blanket orders directly from the
blanket order form, click the :guilabel:`➡️ (right arrow)` icon that becomes visible when hovering

> over the :guilabel:`Agreement Type` field where :guilabel:`Blanket Order` is listed. This navigates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
over the :guilabel:`Agreement Type` field, where :guilabel:`Blanket Order` is listed. This navigates
```

to the blanket order settings.

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-internal-link-arrow.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Internal link arrow next to Agreement Type field on blanket order form.

From here, the settings for blanket orders can be edited. Under the :guilabel:`Agreement Type`
section, the name of the :guilabel:`Agreement Type` can be changed, and the :guilabel:`Agreement
Selection Type` can be changed, as well. There are two options that can be activated for the type of
selection:

- :guilabel:`Select only one RfQ (exclusive)`: when a purchase order is confirmed, the remaining

>   purchase orders will be canceled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  purchase orders are canceled.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

- :guilabel:`Select multiple RfQ (non-exclusive)`: when a purchase order is confirmed, remaining

>   purchase orders will **not** be canceled. Instead, multiple purchase orders are allowed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  purchase orders are **not** be canceled. Instead, multiple purchase orders are allowed.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

Under the :guilabel:`Data For New Quotations` section, the :guilabel:`Lines` and
:guilabel:`Quantities` fields can be edited. Doing so sets how new quotations should be populated
when using this purchase agreement.

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-edit-agreement-type.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Purchase Agreement type edit screen for blanket orders.

There are two options that can be activated for :guilabel:`Lines`:

- :guilabel:`Use lines of agreement`: when creating a new quotation, the product lines pre-populate
  with the same products listed on the blanket order, if said blanket order is chosen for the new
  quotation.
- :guilabel:`Do not create RfQ lines automatically`: when creating a new quotation, **and**

>   selecting an existing blanket order, the settings will carry over to the new quotation, but the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  selecting an existing blanket order, the settings carry over to the new quotation, but the
```

>   product lines will **not** populate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  product lines do **not** populate.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

And, there are two options that can be activated for :guilabel:`Quantities`:

- :guilabel:`Use quantities of agreement`: when creating a new quotation, the product quantities
  listed on the blanket order pre-populate on the product lines, if said blanket order is chosen for
  the new quotation.
- :guilabel:`Set quantities manually`: when creating a new quotation, **and** selecting an existing

>   blanket order, the product lines pre-populate, but all quantities will be set to **0**. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  blanket order, the product lines pre-populate, but all quantities are set to `0`. The
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

  quantities **must** be manually set by the user.

Once any desired changes have been made, click :guilabel:`New` (via the breadcrumbs, at the top of
the page) to navigate back to the blanket order form. Then, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to save this
new purchase agreement.

Once confirmed, the blanket order's stage (in the upper-right corner) changes from *Draft* to

> *Ongoing*, meaning this agreement can be selected and used when creating new |RfQs|.

Reviewer 2: GUIs should be applied to 'Draft' and 'Ongoing' because they appear on the UI

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

.. tip::
   After creating and confirming a blanket order, products, quantities, and prices can still be
   edited, added, and removed from the purchase agreement.

Create a new |RfQ| from the blanket order
=========================================

After confirming a blanket order, new quotations can be created directly from the blanket order
form. |RfQs| using this form are pre-populated with information based on the rules set in the form.

> Additionally, new quotations are automatically linked to this blanket order form via the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, new quotations are automatically linked to this blanket order form, via the
```

> :guilabel:`RFQs/Orders` smart button at the top right of the form.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`RFQs/Orders` smart button at the top-right of the form.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

To create a new quotation from the blanket order form, click the :guilabel:`New Quotation` button.
This opens a new |RfQ|, that is pre-populated with the correct information, depending on the
settings configured on the blanket order form.

From the new |RfQ| form, click :guilabel:`Send by Email` to compose and send an email to the listed
vendor. Click :guilabel:`Print RFQ` to generate a printable PDF of the quotation; or, once ready,
click :guilabel:`Confirm Order` to confirm the |PO|.

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-new-quotation.png
   :align: center
   :alt: New quotation with copied products and rules from blanket order.

Once the |PO| has been confirmed, click back to the blanket order form (via the breadcrumbs, at the
top of the page). From the blanket order form, there is now one |RfQ| listed in the

> :guilabel:`RFQs/Orders` smart button at the top right of the form. Click the :guilabel:`RFQs/Orders`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`RFQs/Orders` smart button at the top-right of the form. Click the :guilabel:`RFQs/Orders`
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

Blanket orders are long-term purchase agreements between a company and a vendor to deliver products
on a recurring basis with predetermined pricing.

Blanket orders are helpful when products are consistently purchased from the same vendor, but in
different quantities, and at different times.

By simplifying the ordering process, blanket orders not only save time, they also save money, since
they can be advantageous when negotiating bulk pricing with vendors.

Create a new blanket order
==========================

To create blanket orders, enable the *Purchase Agreements* feature from the *Purchase* app settings.
Navigate to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Configuration --> Settings`, and under the
:guilabel:`Orders` section, click the checkbox for :guilabel:`Purchase Agreements`. Then click
:guilabel:`Save` to implement the changes.

.. note::
   In addition to creating blanket orders, the *Purchase Agreements* setting also allows users to
   create alternative requests for quotation (RfQs).

.. image:: blanket_orders/blanket-orders-enabled-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Purchase Agreements enabled in the Purchase app settings.

> To create a blanket order, go to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Orders --> Blanket Orders`,
> and click :guilabel:`New`. This opens a new blanket order form.

Reviewer 3: Early break
```suggestion
To create a blanket order, go to :menuselection:`Purchase app --> Orders --> Blanket Orders`, and
click :guilabel:`New`. This opens a new blanket order form.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅

Configure the following fields in the new blanket order form to establish predetermined rules for
the recurring long-term agreement:

- :guilabel:`Purchase Representative`: the user assigned to this specific blanket order. By default,
  this is the user who created the agreement; the user can be changed directly from the drop-down
  menu next to this field.
- :guilabel:`Agreement Type`: the type of purchase agreement this blanket order is classified as. In
  Odoo, blanket orders are the only official purchase agreement.
- :guilabel:`Vendor`: the supplier to whom this agreement is tied, either once or on a recurring
  basis. The vendor can be selected directly from the drop-down menu next to this field.
- :guilabel:`Currency`: the agreed-upon currency to be used for this exchange. If multiple
  currencies have been activated in the database, the currency can be changed from the drop-down
  menu next to this field.
- :guilabel:`Agreement Deadline`: the date that this purchase agreement will be set to expire on. If
  this blanket order should not expire, leave this field blank.

> - :guilabel:`Ordering Date`: the date that this blanket order should be placed on if a new

Reviewer 3: Early break
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Ordering Date`: the date that this blanket order should be placed on if a new quotation
  is created directly from the blanket order form. If a new quotation is created, this value
  automatically populates the *Order Deadline* field on the |RfQ|.
```

Author: Suggestion implemented ✅
